---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '41306'
  title: >-
    Demo Guru: the Credible Voice of the Technical Sale
    Sales Engineering Profession to Perfection
  author: Alessio Lolli
  asin: B08VGCJDPM
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2021-11-29'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/812GMgG5eQL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 13
created: 2022-06-23T09:57:36+03:00
updated: 2022-10-13T11:20:01+03:00
---
# Demo Guru
## Metadata
* Author: [Alessio Lolli](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
* ASIN: B08VGCJDPM
* ISBN: 1663214654
* Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B08VGCJDPM
* [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08VGCJDPM)

## Highlights
SALES ENGINEERS CONSULT. SALESPEOPLE SELL. — location: [208](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08VGCJDPM&location=208) ^ref-19737

---
one presales professional tends to help two to three outside sales representatives, — location: [236](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08VGCJDPM&location=236) ^ref-57561

---
manage a sales cycle, which is not the direct responsibility of any Demo Guru. — location: [290](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08VGCJDPM&location=290) ^ref-14729

---
SDRs try to uncover if the prospective customer has enough Budget, Authority, Need, and an appropriate Timeline for a decision in their interactions with the prospective buyers. If all four (or sometimes three out of the four) criteria is met, the prospective customer is commonly marked as an SQL, or Sales Qualified Lead, and passed on to the Account Executive (AE) to advance the sales cycle. Once in the AE’s hands, the SQL generated by the Inside Sales Team usually goes through an OPPORTUNITY QUALIFICATION to make sure the account is workable and therefore converted from an SQL to a QSO, or Qualified Sales Opportunity. — location: [353](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08VGCJDPM&location=353) ^ref-25174

---
The first thing your AE should do, even before thinking about which customers to reach out to as a reference, is create a “value statement” for the prospective customer. The value statement is a simple one-pager that states why your solution and your organization can create value for them. In the area of software sales, I recommend adding an AS-IS versus a TO-BE graphical representation to show how we have captured their vision and how realistically we will make it happen. — location: [371](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08VGCJDPM&location=371) ^ref-18439

---
Table 1.2.1. Presales Engagement in Sales Cycle — location: [437](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08VGCJDPM&location=437) ^ref-7279

---
Have a running list of the most frequent features you tend to show during a demonstration. For each feature, try to find a customer story that factually proves how that functionality works — location: [572](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08VGCJDPM&location=572) ^ref-19343

---
During your presentation, start by clearly stating the two major requirements you have learned from your past calls with the prospect. — location: [828](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08VGCJDPM&location=828) ^ref-28890

---
This specific demo type is also usually referred to as the “gatekeeper demo,” and guess what? It is not a demo. This is just a get together with the prospect where we let them be completely in charge of the sales cycle. Being asked to show “a bit of everything” in an hour or so is wholly inefficient and a waste of time for any experienced Sales Engineer. The total lack of qualification could instead have a counter effect that makes the whole situation worse. — location: [874](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08VGCJDPM&location=874) ^ref-45527

---
live webinars led by less experienced sales engineers given their scripted nature. — location: [887](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08VGCJDPM&location=887) ^ref-14853

---
Release Readiness Demos target all internal employees consulting customers on your solutions, your partner network reselling your product, and of course your customer base currently utilizing your software solution. Very rarely do these demos involve prospective customers. — location: [1146](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08VGCJDPM&location=1146) ^ref-55389

---
would recommend adding a quick one-minute survey at the end of your presentation where attendees are called to provide feedback — location: [1164](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08VGCJDPM&location=1164) ^ref-44939

---
TEST TRIALS What to Do What Not to Do Use them as a closing tool Promote them as part of any sales strategy Closely monitor prospect’s activity Agree to prolonged access Rely on adequate trial infrastructure Send log-ins without any prior walkthrough — location: [1629](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B08VGCJDPM&location=1629) ^ref-33475

---
