---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '50272'
  title: 'Stolen Focus
  author: Johann Hari
  asin: B096LZDY32
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2022-01-26'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/71uaAWq6PdL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 7
created: 2022-08-01T10:27:36+02:00
updated: 2022-08-01T10:27:36+02:00
---
# Stolen Focus
## Metadata
* Author: [Johann Hari](https://www.amazon.com/Johann-Hari/e/B00NEUY9BY/ref=dp_byline_cont_ebooks_1)
* ASIN: B096LZDY32
* ISBN: 1526620227
* Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B096LZDY32
* [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B096LZDY32)

## Highlights
James Baldwin – the man who is, for my money, the greatest writer of the twentieth century – said: ‘Not everything that is faced can be changed, but nothing can be changed until it is faced.’ — location: [229](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B096LZDY32&location=229) ^ref-38130

---
Slowness, he explained, nurtures attention, and speed shatters it. — location: [558](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B096LZDY32&location=558) ^ref-19644

---
Skinner became convinced that this principle explained human behaviour almost in its entirety. You believe that you are free, and that you make choices, and you have a complex human mind that is selecting what to pay attention to – but it’s all a myth. You and your sense of focus are simply the sum total of all the reinforcements you have experienced in your life. Human beings, he believed, have no minds – not in the sense that you are a person with free will making your own choices. — location: [810](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B096LZDY32&location=810) ^ref-11970

---
‘To have a good life, it is not enough to remove what is wrong with it,’ Mihaly has explained. ‘We also need a positive goal; otherwise why keep going?’ — location: [917](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B096LZDY32&location=917) ^ref-41010

---
Throughout the day, in your brain, a chemical is building up called adenosine, and it signals to you when you are sleepy. Caffeine blocks the receptor that picks up on the level of adenosine. ‘I liken it to putting a Post-it note over your fuel-gauge indicator. You’re not giving yourself more energy – you’re just not realising how empty you are. — location: [1082](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B096LZDY32&location=1082) ^ref-898

---
It’s not that they are listening and then they can do targeted ad serving. It’s that their model of you is so accurate that it’s making predictions about you that you think are magic.’ — location: [1948](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B096LZDY32&location=1948) ^ref-47317

---
we all need to have a sense of what he called ‘mastery’ – that we are good at something. It’s a basic human psychological need. When you feel you are good at something, you will find it much easier to focus on it, and if you feel incompetent, your attention will shrivel like a salted snail. — location: [3943](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B096LZDY32&location=3943) ^ref-28218

When we are good at something, we stop doing it. We start empowering others to do it, managing or processing; the joy of doing that thing is taken in order to progress

---
